AMP AD
The Religious Orders Study and Memory and Aging Project (ROSMAP) Study
ROS is a longitudinal clinical-pathologic cohort study of aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) run from Rush University that enrolled individuals from religious communities for longitudinal clinical analysis and brain donation. Participants were enrolled from more than 40 groups of religious orders (nuns, priests, brothers) across the United States. Enrollment required no known signed of dementia. Medical conditions are documented starting in 1994 by clinical evaluation or self-report. Alzheimer's Disease status was determined by a computer algorithm based on cognitive test performance with a series of discrete clinical judgments made in series by a neuropsychologist and a clinician. Persons were categorized as no cognitive impairment (NCI) if diagnosed without dementia or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Diagnoses of dementia and AD conform to standard definitions. A clinician reviewed all cases determined by this algorithm. In addition to dementia, five other diagnoses were determined by this approach including stroke, cognitive impairment due to stroke, parkinsonism, Parkinson's disease, and depression. Most other diagnoses are by self report. In addition, a battery of 21 cognitive performance tests is administered each year to assess cognitive abilities and determine these diagnostic classifications. Upon death, a post-mortem neuropathologic evaluation is performed that includes a uniform structured assessment of AD pathology, cerebral infarcts, Lewy body disease, and other pathologies common in aging and dementia. The procedures follow those outlined by the pathologic dataset recommended by the National Alzheimer’s Disease Coordinating Center and pathologic diagnoses of AD use NIA-Reagan and modified CERAD criteria, and the staging of neurofibrillary pathology uses Braak Staging. The ROS study is described in detail in (1).
MAP is a longitudinal, epidemiologic clinical-pathologic cohort study of common chronic conditions of aging with an emphasis on decline in cognitive and motor function and risk of Alzheimer’s disease that began in 1997 and is run from Rush University. This study was designed to complement the ROS study by enrolling individuals with a wider range of life experiences and socioeconomic status into a study of similar structure and design as ROS. The study enrolls older individuals without any signs of dementia, primarily recruiting from continuous care retirement communities throughout northeastern Illinois, USA. Diagnoses of dementia and AD are performed in an identical manner to the ROS study (described above). The MAP study is described in detail in (1).